Vanakkam.
When dealing with customers, when interacting
with prospects, when providing support to
those that you serve, keep this important
thing in mind always, said my boss, a few years ago.
That’s what I intend to share with you all
today. If you look at these boxes here, ISTJ, ISFP,
ENTP, ENFJ, … there are sixteen such boxes!
Two scientists, researchers, named Myers and
Briggs, did a psychological profile of thousands
of people from various walks of life… way
back in the 1950s.
They tried to find out if there were a finite
number of personality types — and they concluded
that there were sixteen such.
They called it the Myers Briggs Type Indicator.
Millions must have taken the test since then
(it is even available online for free!), and
over time, it has lost its sheen too, and
a few even question it for its veracity.
But, what’s important is that you know that
there is a concept such as that, and we are
just going to focus on only ONE of those sixteen
— titled the INFJ.
INFJ stands for Introverted, Intuitive, Feeling,
Judging.
A person with the influences of these four
“qualities” is titled an INFJ.
If you were to be dropped into a specific
situation or scenario, your reactions would
stem out of these four starting points.
You are
a Feeling-person.
You use the Heart more than you use the Brain.
You don’t just Perceive.
You want to pass a Verdict, pass a Judgement
all the time.
So, this makes you highly sensitive, you don’t
open up much, you end up getting the label
“You are taking things too personally”
all the time.
The customer might bark at you for some reason…
The product isn’t performing well, there
is a bug in this functionality, something
is broken here, etc..
And you “take it personally” and feel
as if it is you yourself that is broken!
You go home.
You cry.
The next day, the dark heaviness is still
weighing down on you.
So, this is what my boss said.
As an antidote to the INFJ.
He said, “Develop a thick skin”.
In fact, this advice isn’t suited just for
customer service…
It could be about the people in your home,
the teacher you are taught by, the colleagues
you work with…
Stakeholders — of every ilk.
Whatever you produce, there will always be
people who are in a position to criticize,
talk about, pass verdicts on what it looks
like and how it feels.
Consumers.
Customers.
Colleagues.
Partners.
Competitors.
Critics.
To deal with these people successfully, … my
boss said..
“Develop a thick skin”.
If you develop a thick skin, like the one
on the proverbial “Delhi buffalo”, whatever
torrential rain beats down, it will still
stay immobile in eternal bliss, eyes half-closed,
in the middle of the road…
Develop a thick skin, he said.
I first thought it was the buffalo he was
referring to.
But, later, I googled around and looked for
the animal with a thick skin.. thickest skin..
the animal with the thickest skin…
The whale, with all its blubber, is of course
the winner..
But that is underwater.
But, among land animals, the thickest skin
belongs to the elephant.
The word “pachyderm”, referring to an
elephant, stems from Greek terms “pachy”
(meaning “thick”) and “derm” (meaning
“skin”)!
It is pretty thick too.
3.8 centimetres at some places!
But my research didn’t stop there.
There was something beautiful hidden just
out of sight.
That’s when I realised that there is a lot
more to it than meets the eye, whenever my
boss tells me something!
Much to discover, if only I dug a little deeper.
Why thick skin?
Why elephant skin?
Even if it is 3.8 centimetres thick…, even
if it is thick enough to withstand the assault
of a spear head on, even if it is impervious
to arrows shot at it, (it is the elephant
force that goes up front… for it can tackle
all kinds of weapons thrown at it)… have
you seen how an elephant, first thing after
a fresh bath at the riverside, throws trunkfuls
of dirt back on top of its body?
Guess why?
A mosquito can actually suck blood through
this 3.8 centimetre skin!
How?
Because there are a lot of gaps in between.
That is why, even though its skin is so thick,
the elephant is supersensitive, it can even
sense a mosquito sitting near its ear.
So, that then, is the speciality.
Don’t just develop a thick skin!
Also be sensitive for those micromessages!
That’s the important lesson for today!
Thank you!